hey youtubers welcome back to the
channel again porchetta
in the Dutch oven very popular in Italy
done with the whole pig but we're going
to do a little smaller scale today
matter of fact an update three
now in Italy what they do is they take a
whole pig sixty to seventy pounds and
they debone it everything with the head
they lay it out flat skin down and they
season it with many herbs and spices and
I'll have a complete description below
of the ones that I'm using and they will
take it load it on there put all the
herbs and spices and then roll the pig
up and tie it in a round bundle place it
on a long scure and roasted over a pit
and like I say we're going to do it a
little bit different today and this is a
piece of the pork loin that I've had
very lean piece of meat so uh I'm gonna
head some hog jowl now you can use bacon
instead of Hangzhou I just happen to
have some hog jowls so I'm gonna take
the hard Rhynie area off some of the
pieces the ones I put on the inside here
this is the add extra fat since the
piece of pork that I have here is fairly
lean
we don't want to dry out I'm gonna take
those rinds and set them aside and use
them also like to say I'm not going to
put them on the inside of the role now I
had taken this roast and you can watch
my previous video on butchers secret on
how I cut this pork roast and made it
into a flat piece of meat now I'm going
to take some cotton twine
it's called butchers twine but I'm using
just some cotton string that I had
around the house here any type of cotton
twine will work just do not use anything
with polyester in it guys
this is going to hold it together while
it's cooking
then I flipped it over with the fat side
up and I'm gonna take my knife and pump
some holes I used half of the garlic on
the inside of the roast and I'm gonna
take the other half of the garlic that
I've got and shove it into these slots
of these little holes that I've poked
into it with the knife
now I'm going to take and douse it down
with the olive oil
now take the line and lay it across the
top these will be very crisp and crunchy
and take three more pieces of hog gel
with the Rhine on them a toothpick them
into the roast oh there it is
it's ready to go in the Dutch oven but
first let's go outside and get the Dutch
oven fire going if you've never used one
of these guys these things are really
cool put paper in the bottom and pour
your charcoal on top now here's my new
little knife sheath I've made another
video on it here soon made it from cat X
a neat thing about these charcoal
chimneys is that since the fires at the
bottom the charcoal gets going really
quick and you don't have to use any
starter foot whatsoever
I really like it after about 20 minutes
did it be ready now back in the house
with the olive oil again we're going all
up the Dutch oven sent the porchetta
inside the Dutch oven and I also add a
cup and a half of water before placing
it on the charcoals now if you'll notice
I've got a pizza pan at the bottom of my
weber grill I've taken of course all the
grills and everything off I'm setting my
Dutch oven on the charcoal briquettes
and then I'm pouring the others on top
of the lid
I mean what's left of us kind of
sprinkle around the ages and we're
hoping that this will be done within an
hour and a half to two hours let's close
it up and check it after 30 minutes now
this is after 30 minutes don't want to
get any ashes in the Dutch oven lift it
off easily Oh looking good looking good
back on and I'm shutting the grill down
I have all the vents open because it's a
really windy day this is after one hour
some of my potatoes that I can't last
year now the garden and half of a
medium-sized to large onion and back on
with the lid again
you'll want more calls on the top than
you want underneath now this has been an
hour and a half oh yeah
this is regular stovetop stuffing put
the lid back on and give it about
another another 15 minutes and see how
it does
there we go she's done she's complete
not Bart Oh smells wonderful get out all
the stuffing the potatoes and the onions
okay to try guys I think you'll like it
thanks for watching